[Music]
hey how's it going Dave QD here
so recently Dell released this the two
and one XPS 13 and have been a huge fan
of the original XPS 13 but this new
version seems better on paper it's
thinner it's more versatile because it's
got that 360 hinge and it's similarly
priced let's take a look it has the same
design language aluminum top and bottom
panels with soft touch carbon fiber on
the deck all very rigid and properly
fitted true to the whole XPS name this
thing has great build quality the hinge
looks solid it allows you to rotate the
screen all the way around and you can
kind of one hand open it from the side
but because the bottom half is so light
you have to wobble it a bit to get it
open for ports we have micro SD and
audio jack and a pair of USB sea ports
one of them supports Thunderbolt 3 there
are no use ba ports which is how the
device is so sin but they include an
adapter so I'm happy the screen is a
1080p panel color gamut is great color
accuracy out of the box wasn't amazing
but calibration made it much better it
does get pretty bright and the super
send dozens on the XPS line are always
welcome there's also a qHD version
available if you want the keyboard is a
little disappointing for me so the keys
themselves are actually bigger than
normal there are a couple millimeters
wider than normal XPS 13 or XPS 15 keys
it doesn't feel too different from the
regular XPS 13 keyboard it's still a
short travel stroke maybe a little
spongy err but similar enough but my
biggest gripe are the page up and page
down Keys located here so I've been
using this thing for two weeks and I
still accidentally hit them when I'm
trying to press left or right so if
you're a database user or a spreadsheet
user or just if you frequently use the
arrow keys this might be an issue the
trackpad is good it's the same shape and
size as the regular XPS 13 Windows
precision drivers good tracking the
click mechanism is solid overall it's a
good trackpad there's now a fingerprint
sensor it works quickly with Windows
hello location is good and tactile you
can instantly find it in the dark and
there's also the classic XPS webcam it
look
up your nose but this one has an
infrared can support Windows hello once
Microsoft certifies it when you open up
the bottom panel the RAM is soldered on
but the nvme drive up here is user
replaceable it's the same toshiba drive
as the XPS 13 so speeds are pretty good
the 46 watt hour battery takes up a huge
footprint and we're getting very good
battery life i'm comfortably getting
eight hours with it and it charges up
using a 50 watt youth pc charger it's
running Intel y processors which are
famous they're normally 4.5 watt TDP
chips but if the thermal management is
good enough they can go up to 7 watts
and that's what Dell does here the
performance is surprisingly good for
such a low wattage chip it feels very
snappy for single core stuff like work
and light web browsing heavier tasks
will still bog the system down so
anything that uses both cores for
extended periods of time like heavy
photo or video editing can get sluggish
the regular XPS 13 with the Core i5 or
the Core i7 CPU those will handle
heavier tasks better gaming on the 2 & 1
XPS 13 isn't great even compared to the
regular XPS 13 you can play some really
light stuff like csgo it does however
have a Sun about three port that uses
four lane PCIe it doesn't officially
support external GPUs but with a couple
drivers it can connect up now keep in
mind it's a famous dual-core CPU so CPU
dependent games are still not amazing
but some games can do pretty well your
exact frame rates will depend heavily on
the graphics card you use and pretty
expensive to set this up for a core Y
processor but it works there's no fan
noise because there's no fan and thermo
still aren't bad there's an obvious
warmer cluster on top where all the good
stuff is but it's a very comfortable
device to use so the speakers when it's
in laptop mode the speakers are good
they sound very similar to the XPS 13
speakers but because of their location
when you have an intent mode you lose a
ton of audio clarity the sound bounces
around behind the screen and you kind of
lose the stereo effects it actually
sounds like a mono speaker and the same
thing happens in presentation on in fact
it's actually worse in presentation
and the thing is these alternative
configurations like these non laptop
positions these are the positions that
people often use when they're consuming
media where you want your audio quality
to be the best but that's just not the
case now when you have it in tablet mode
the speaker positioning is fine as long
as you're not covering it with your hand
I want to talk a bit more about the
tablet mode of this device because this
is a feature that kind of separates the
Joule 1 XPS 13 from the regular XPS 13
and the bottom line I don't enjoy using
as a tablet so when you fold the screen
over remember the super thin bezels I
love them on a laptop but as a tablet
because of these thin bezels there's
very little room to hold the device
without accidentally making contact with
the touchscreen and then there's the
issue of ergonomics I just don't find it
comfortable to hold and this is a
problem that almost every single folding
2 & 1 convertible has when the keyboard
is flipped around you can feel the keys
they're deactivated they don't register
keystrokes but it just feels weird and
there's also that uncomfortable edge
when you're holding it the soft touch
material is nice to hold it's grippy but
holding a 2.7 pound tablet for extended
periods of time is just not enjoyable
and there's no hardware buttons for
audio controls you have to do with new
software so over the past couple of
weeks I've been trying to use this thing
as often as I can as a tablet and I got
to be honest every single time I try
just end up reverting back to using it
as a laptop because it's just so much
more comfortable to use as a laptop and
I get it this thing was designed as a
laptop first and a tablet as like a
secondary option if you want to you can
use it as a tablet but I'm just saying
the tablet experience is not my favorite
and that leads me to my last point this
thing starts at $1000 so the pricing is
not that different from the regular XPS
13 this is still a good device but
unless you really want that tablet mode
or the different screen positions I
would stick with the original XPS 13
this thing is awesome this is still good
we are treating performance for this
hinge and unless you really make good
use of the hinge
I'd skip it that's you know this video
hope you guys enjoyed it thumbs we did
subs if you loved it see you guys next
time
you
[Music]